we will always be there by your side the
words of US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin as he reaffirmed America's full
support to Israel but warned that
precautions must be taken to avoid
harming civilians of every nationality
the Secretary of State said he'll
continue to send defense support after
meeting Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu during a visit to Tel Aviv
Israeli media has said the number of
those killed since the attacks by the
Palestinian militant group Hamas on
Saturday has risen to at least 1300 many
Western governments including the US and
the UK have designated Hamas as a
terrorist organization Mr blinken also
confirmed that 25 Americans are known to
have died it comes as Israeli air
strikes on Gaza have continued with the
health Ministry there saying that more
than 1350 people have now been killed
Israel says the Complete Siege on Gaza
will not end until hostages are released
the international Committee of the Red
Cross is warning Hospital generators
could run out of fuel today after the
only Power Station in Gaza ran out of
fuel Mr blinken's due to meet
Palestinian leaders on Friday where
he'll push diplomatic efforts to end the
fighting well these are some of the
other key developments this hour the
United Nations says more than 338,000
people have now been forced to flee
their homes in Gaza as human itarian
situation worsens ahead of a possible
incursion into Gaza Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
established the National Emergency Unity
government with leader of the opposition
Benny Gant meanwhile the UK foreign
secretary has announced that the
government set to facilitate flights to
help British citizens leave Israel
Anthony blinkin and Benjamin netan who
as we've been mentioning have been
speaking at a joint news conference in
Israel let's have a listen in to what
they said we know Hamas instead of
promoting the well-being of its citizens
rules repressively and dedicates the
resources it has to Terror tunnels and
Rockets we know Hamas didn't commit its
heinous acts with the interests of
Palestinian people in
mind we know Hamas does not stand for
the future that Palestinians want for
themselves and for their
children Hamas has only one agenda to
destroy Israel
and to murder
Jews no country can or would tolerate
the slaughter of its citizens or simply
return to the conditions that allowed it
to take place Israel has the right
indeed the obligation to defend itself
and to ensure that this never happens
again as the Prime Minister and I
discussed how Israel does this
matters we democracies distinguish
ourselves from terrorists by striving
for a different standard even when it's
difficult and holding ourselves to
account when we fall short are
Humanity the value that we place on
human life and human dignity that's what
makes us who we
are and we count them among our greatest
strength that's why it's so important to
take every possible precaution to avoid
harming civilians and that's why we
mourn the loss of every innocent life
civilians of every Faith every
nationality who've been
killed
tragically the number of innocent lives
claimed by hamas's heinous attacks
continues to rise among those we now
know that at least 25 American citizens
were killed we joined families in Israel
in the United States around the world in
mourning their immeasurable
loss just some breaking news lines that
have come in to us via the Reuters News
news agency which says that Israel's
military Chief of Staff has said we did
not meet the challenge of protecting
Israel and uh goes on to say we will
learn we will investigate but now is the
time for War uh presumably responding to
criticism over Israel's intelligence
failures um at the weekend well now
let's go live to our chief International
correspondent Lee duet who is in Sarat
for
us yes to pick up on that phrase reini
now is the time for war and here in the
South as you can hear the sound of
artillery all the signs all the SES are
that Israel is preparing for an
intensification of this war as we drove
into stat which at this point is less
than a mile from the Gaza border uh
there was the constant sound of heavy
artillery you can and I think you can
see the the plumes of black smoke Rising
that's Gaza City in the background now
under nonstop bombardment and we've been
reporting on BBC News the humanitarian
consequences of Israel's attacks on the
Gaza Strip Israel continues to say that
it's only attacking Hamas infrastructure
only aiming to take out hamas's leaders
but as always in war it's also a
deepening humanitarian crisis and
they're feeling it here in Sou Israel
sarot has always been on the front line
when it comes to increased confrontation
between Israel um and Gaza the Rockets
have come in here year after year
decades after decades the whole town
many places are now shut but some people
still want to say saying they can't
afford to leave so when we arrived in
stat this morning we met the mayor Alon
davadi who's appealing to the Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to help him
evacuate this town you have asked prime
minister Netanyahu to evacuate all the
residents of your town of course because
I want to give the to the government and
to the Army a time to make the war
against the Kamas and the Jihad and this
is a dangerous place now because we are
so close to the Gaza to the border of
Gaza I know that I speak with you a few
time in the last days you see all the
and of the missile that land on the town
you see on the injur
that injur from the rocket we have
people that died from that it's a good
for the family that Liv in the road to
be outside from the city people have not
left already you haven't asked them to
left yes people left but imagine if you
you have your family you cannot rent a
hotel for one month from your money this
is responsible of the country to give
them the H support that they need what's
the M toot now you always bear the brunt
you're so close to Gaza whenever there's
a a crisis
erupts we love our city
will our government the states of Israel
in my heart is breaking when I speak
with all the family that that lose their
you know father mother that murder
for murder with the teror murder them
the terrorist murder them my bre my
heart is breaking but we need to make
the job with the people we need to take
care to the people that live here and
and thanks to God I hope that we have
the courage to continue and to crush the
Jad in theas are you angry at your
government that this has happened no I'm
not angry I'm angry about
our love of today I will say something
you know you are in the BBC you always
and I know that you are do it because
you are want that the world will be good
Jad and Kama
it's a organiz organization that take
money and the support from Iran jiad and
Hamas don't care about the future of
Gaza and don't care about the future of
Israel but you must care about the
future of Gaza it's your neighbor it's
just that if we want if you want that
the future of this area will be good we
need to find the way to take the Hamas
and the Jihad out from Gaza to take all
the weapon that they have outside from
GDA if they don't want to do it we need
to kill them we need to destroy them not
for me for you and for all of us and
because that I said to the GU the the
the Prime Minister take your time if you
need one month two months to make H the
war from today and it take you two
months to destroy them let's do it let's
do it
just take the people out give them the
supply that they need and we pray
together me and you and everyone to to
God that the God give us the power to
destroy the the the evil this is it
people here said that in 2008
2021 it keeps happening no it's because
when always when we start to make
operation in Gaza after one week after
two weeks the leadership of britania the
leadership of United States and all the
country say to netan and say to our
prime minister stop stop we you need and
I hear the Biden what Biden said I'm I
said thank you for you to the president
of United States of your support I say
thank you for all the leadership of the
country that support Israel you need to
say to netan take your time if you need
your our weapon if you need our soldier
we need to destroy it and vage and vage
the Hamas and the from the area well
leas is still with us but before we go
back to lease and Sarat we have an
update from the Gaza Health Ministry uh
the latest now is that,
1417 Palestinians have been killed since
Israeli strikes on since Saturday and
6,268 have been wounded leas uh back to
you now when we were talking too earlier
we could hear the sound of artillery in
the background how are people who want
to leave Gaza going to be able to get
safe
passage well that is the big issue it it
it's a very dangerous moment the people
of Gaza every time there is a crisis
like this they hear Israel's warning to
the people of Gaza to leave and they say
there's no there's nowhere for us to
leave to there's nowhere uh safe enough
for us to hide you we have to keep
reminding our our our viewers that
Israel pulled out his troops in 2005 but
Israel still controls the airspace it
still controls the waters it controls
all of the crossings around this Coastal
strip except one which goes through
Egypt and and and Israel bombed it the
other day so today uh the Egyptians
pleaded with the Israelis please don't
bomb the crossing at Rafa uh the Rafa
Crossing is open today but they can only
take in 400 a day and there will be tens
of thousands of desperate people trying
to get out if of course they have the
paperwork to get out and that's why
there are intensive discussions going on
with the Egyptians the Americans many
other countries including the British
providing safe passage a way out through
that Crossing and also allowing food and
fuel to get in to help people who who
can't leave I mean most people will want
to leave if only for a short time is
Egypt of course is wor that it'll have a
huge influx of people and that as always
in this region a temporary situation
becomes a permanent one and no one they
don't want to see a depopulation and
also it's dangerous people are hiding in
their basements if there's bombardment I
mean look at that what's now the smoke
that's drifting through the sky children
elderly to walk on the streets their
their there their there's glass
everywhere the the rubble strewn across
the streets it's dangerous inside the
home and it's dangerous outside the home
it's dangerous everywhere in Gaza now
and Le we've been reporting throughout
the day a buildup of troops at the
border everyone's trying to guess when
that Israeli land incursion might come
what's your assessment and what are you
thinking at the
moment it is a very complex very
dangerous undertaking the Israeli
Defense Forces has said that the
decision to go go in to to launch this
kind of operation has still not been
taken but everything around uh all the
preparations all of the statements all
of the pressure suggests nothing else
that there will at some point have to be
a ground Invasion this is something
Israel has tried to avoid we saw in 2014
they made some kind of they did make
incursions across the border they were
trying to destroy the tunnels which were
used by Hamas to bring uh to to
penetrate into uh Southern Israel to
bring in resources but they didn't go in
for a full a full scale Invasion now the
big question is are they going to go in
are they going to try to reoccupy Gaza
this will be fighting Street by Street
house by house room by room it is a
densely populated enclave and it seems
beyond very absolutely certain that if
Hamas took made all the preparations to
carry out this unprecedented assault
they will have also carried out
unprecedented preparations to be ready
when it knows that Israel will retaliate
they are ready now they're waiting for
Israel to come in as Israel prepares and
all the signs are is that this is
gathering Pace by the day one of the
BBC's best lease du set please do stay
safe